Add all scripts to run  cellranger-analysis module (#13)
stjude-dnb-binfcore/sc-rna-seq-snap: analyses/cellranger-analysis/README.md

# Pipeline for running and summarizing Cell Ranger count for single or multiple libraries for sc-/sn-RNA-Seq Analysis in 10X Genomics data

## Usage

To run all the scripts in this module from the command line sequentially, use:

```
bsub < submit-multiple-jobs.sh
```

The `submit-multiple-jobs.sh` script is designed to be run as if it was called from this module directory even when called from outside of this directory. 
   - Step 1: To run the `j1.sh` script to align single or multiple libraries in parallel, i.e., `run-cellranger-analysis`. 
   - Step 2: To run `j2.sh` to summarize alignment results, i.e., `summarize-cellranger-analysis`. The latter script will be on hold and executed once all libraries are aligned and `j1.sh` is complete. This is been taken care of by `waiter.sh` script.

Parameters according to the project and analysis strategy will need to be specified in the following scripts:
- `j1.sh`: 

>    - `--file`: define path with `project_metadata` file. This is by default in the `./input/` dir at the module. The file needs to be in `*.txt` file format. If the file lives in another folder, this should be modified accordingly. In addition, there is a code line to convert `*.tsv` file to `*.txt` file, if needed. User can specify the file path in there for the conversion. This file can contain either one or multiple samples as long as the following minimum parameters are provided: `ID`, `SAMPLE`, and `FASTQ` columns.

Reviewer: I think overall these instructions are pretty clear. However, I think they might be made a bit clearer by reordering some of the instructions and being slightly more explicit. 
E.g. "define path with `project_metadata` file. By default in the `./input/` dir within the `/sc-rna-seq-snap/analyses/cellranger-analysis` module. If the file lives in another folder, this path should be modified accordingly within the script. The file needs to be in `*.txt` file format." 
Then leave the remaining text for this parameter as is.

Author: The `README` file has been updated accordingly. See 412b9fbba2601739985dfdbfae9fd97a5257635f.

>    - `--transcriptome`: define reference genome to be used for the alignment. This points out to the path with the reference genome. There are 4 options accommodating for human, mouse, and dual index genomes: `GRCh38`, `mm10`, `GRCh38ANDmm10`, and `GRCh38_GFP_tdTomato`, respectively. If a different reference genome is required (not provided here), this can be added as an argument option in the `./util/run_cellranger.py` along with the path. Unless otherwise specified, the path with all reference genomes is by default and these are maintained by our team at the Bioinformatics core at DNB (./developmentalneurobiology/core_operations/Bioinformatics/common/ReferenceGenomes). 

Reviewer: The mouse references being called for each of these options are technically GRCm39 (mm39), not mm10. See comments on python script. Perhaps these options should be updated here and in the python script to reflect that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - `--transcriptome`: define reference genome to be used for the alignment. This points out to the path with the reference genome. There are 4 options accommodating for human, mouse, and dual index genomes: `GRCh38`, `GRCm39`, `GRCh38ANDGRCm39`, and `GRCh38_GFP_tdTomato`, respectively. If a different reference genome is required (not provided here), this can be added as an argument option in the `./util/run_cellranger.py` along with the path. Unless otherwise specified, the path with all reference genomes is by default and these are maintained by our team at the Bioinformatics core at DNB (./developmentalneurobiology/core_operations/Bioinformatics/common/ReferenceGenomes). 
```

   - `--transcriptome`: define reference genome to be used for the alignment. This points out to the path with the reference genome. There are 4 options accommodating for human, mouse, and dual index genomes: `GRCh38`, `GRCm39`, `GRCh38ANDGRCm39`, and `GRCh38_GFP_tdTomato`, respectively. If a different reference genome is required (not provided here), this can be added as an argument option in the `./util/run_cellranger.py` along with the path. 
  - `--output_dir`: User can change this accordingly if they want to run and compare alignments with CellRanger, e.g., by using `--force_cells=8000` to constraint the number of cells to be used for alignment. We recommend to run by default, and after careful assessment to edit parameters. We have found that the default parameters set up here work well for most of the cases.

- `./util/run_cellranger.py`: The path to the reference genome is required. Please submit an [issue](https://github.com/stjude-dnb-binfcore/sc-rna-seq-snap/issues) to request the path to the path with all reference genomes maintained by our team at the Bioinformatics core at DNB. Otherwise, specify the path to the reference genome of your preference.

> 

Author: @sharonfreshour This is how to get access to the genome reference of our team.
